Alright, so next up we want
to see about the self argument.
And so far we have seen that we
are just creating properties.
Now we want to see how
we can create methods.
And don't you worry, methods are
just a fancy name to functions.
If they are created inside the class,
they are called as methods.
Again, there is no right and wrong.
You can call them functions as well.
There is no big deal.
But most of the time we want
to be technically accurate.
There are a lot of names in the world
of programming jargon, so I just
wanted to make sure that it's there.
Let me share the screen
and actually we can just directly go
onto the code file without
much of the explanation.
That would be super simple for you.
Let's create a new file
and call this one as 04.
This is self args.
I'll show you what the self
args means or in short
for self arguments.
Let's open this up and the first
thing we'll do is make sure
that the AI is not bothering us.
So, so let's go ahead
and create a class.
So this is our class
and we're going to create a class
that call as chai cup.
Yeah, we are taking
a different route this time.
Not just chai chai cup.
I know that the size of a chai cup
is going to be, let's just say 150.
Wondering what this 150 is?
We are internally
referencing as milliliters.
Feel free to use any other size, like
medium small, whatever you wish.
Now I do have a method inside this.
Now notice the indentation.
This is the most important part.
But we are defining a method, but we
can call it as function as well.
Nobody's going to judge you
except interviewer.
I will call this one as describe.
So what this describe function does,
it actually goes ahead and reference
the size and print it nicely
that this is 150 milliliters
of cupchay, something like that.
So for this, the first thing
that you always do in all
the methods is you write self.
This is the step one.
What is this self that
we are passing in here?
Self is a reference to all
the parameter, all the properties
that you are defining here.
It could be one, it
could be many as well.
Just after passing this self, you can
actually refer to any variable that
you have declared within the class.
After you come up here you
can simply go ahead and say I
want to return a simple
formatted string that says a.
And now I can refer to this.
But how do I refer?
Just say size.
Nope.
You actually don't do this, you have
to refer it like this, self
dot and then you see the size.
Whenever you are doing anything
inside the class and you
want to refer to any function
or any property variable,
you use self, then a dot
and then only you refer that.
And this says ML cup Chai.
All right, ML Chai
cup would be better.
Chai Cup.
There we go.
That is it, that is all it takes.
How do we use it?
Surely we can create a simple
cup that comes from chai cup.
Just like that, we have created
an object from the class.
Now all I have to do is just
print the value just like this
and I can say cup dot describe.
It's a method, so you
execute it just like that.
Super simple.
I can just go ahead and do
more fun stuff on this.
I'll show you that actually I can
refer to this directly as well.
So that's also possible.
Instead of creating an object,
I can directly refer to my class.
And you will do this quite a lot
in your Python code.
And then further I can just
go ahead and say describe.
But this is going
to give you an error.
We need to see the error as well.
So first we'll just comment this
down and we'll see what the error
actually comes up and how it works.
So let's first run this as it is.
So there we go, we'll just
go ahead and say Python
and please run the 04.
This is as it is, as expected,
a 150ml cup of chai.
But what happens when I go
ahead and try to describe?
I know that this is a cup Chai Cup.
It is my class name.
I'm well aware of it.
I do have a describe method as well.
It should work technically.
All good.
But you forgot one thing.
We are passing a parameter self here
that is really important.
So what good goes wrong when I
don't go ahead and pass on this?
It says, hey, the Chai cup describe
is missing one positional argument,
as we said, this self here.
So how can we pass on.
Now this is a positional argument,
but also it's a type of self.
That means it is referencing
to the class as of now right now,
but can also refer to the object.
Notice here we created one
object cup here, so I will give
you the context right now.
It doesn't understand that, hey,
who is calling the describe?
And if an object calls the describe?
Okay, I got the context that this guy
is calling it, but there could be
hundreds of other objects as well.
For example, if I go Ahead and say
this is going to be cupto
and this is also a chicup.
And if same thing happens,
somebody is trying to print, that
cup two is also calling the describe
just like this.
There should be some difference
between the line number
nine and line number 13.
So this is also calling
the describe method.
This is also calling
Which should I listen, maybe this has
modified my size to 120 milliliters.
That could be the case.
So we need to pass on the context,
we need to pass on the reference.
And when this object calls this
method describe, it automatically
passes its references.
When this Cup 2 passes
to the describe, it
passes its reference.
But when we call it directly
from this, it has no idea what
reference should I take up and how
to fill up these variables.
So one quick solution that could
be that, hey, I'll just go ahead
and pass on cup to you and I will
comment this for a moment now
that you understand the context
of it.
There we go.
Now if I go ahead and run this, this
says okay, I am 150ml of cup chai.
That's great, but maybe you have
modified this in the Cup 2.
So for example, in the Cup 22 you
came forward and says the size value
is going to be just 100 milliliters.
Maybe we are showing
some frugality here.
So I'll just go ahead and say 100.
Now if I go ahead and run this
describe, it again needs some
context to be passed on.
I'll say that, hey, I'll
pass you the cup too.
So there are two different
references of this one.
I'll go ahead and run this.
And there we go.
And my bad, we actually shouldn't
be passing up like this.
So cup2 dot describe and where is
it founding the mistake Describe.
Let me just quickly.
Oh, my bad.
It shouldn't be calling as an object,
it should be calling up as a class.
My bad.
I'll take that responsibility fully.
And now if you run that,
we can see that one is 150ml
and another one is 100ml.
This is bottom one is 100ml.
This one is 150ml.
So both are totally accurate
way of calling the methods
inside the class.
In one you are calling via
the object so it has the context.
But on the other hand you are calling
it directly from the class itself.
The class doesn't have the context
so you have to pass on the context.
And almost every method that you
are going to pass like this.
Almost all the class they are almost
like 99% of the time they do held
the self have the self reference.
So the easiest way is always
to create an object
and then call the methods.
But there are exceptions.
They're always there.
That is it for this video.
Let's catch up in the next one.